NJIT ACM Constitution 
Article I. Name
Section 1: The name of this organization shall be the “Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)”. In reference to the ACM, when in the context of the international organization, the name shall be the New Jersey Institute of Technology Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery (NJIT ACM). 

Section 2: NJIT student organizations are not official components or agents of NJIT. Official
recognition does not permit a campus organization to use or act in NJIT's name or engage in
any contractual obligation in the name of NJIT. Off-campus activities of a recognized student
organizations are the sole responsibility of the organization, officers, and members, unless
expressly approved in writing and in advance by NJIT.

Section 3: This organization has no external affiliations at this time other than NJIT and will not
have ties to other organizations unless they have clear and explicit written consent from NJIT.
Article II. Purpose
The purpose of this chapter is to organize NJIT students with interests in computing and the associated technologies, so that they may be able to share or expand their knowledge and skills with their peers. This student collaboration in the studies of computing technologies will result in a variety of events, projects, and services hosted by this chapter. 
Article III. Non-Discrimination Policy
Membership shall be open to all NJIT undergraduate/graduate students and comply as members with NJIT policies, including the Code of Student Conduct and the university's Title IX Sexual Harassment Policies, as well as federal and state anti-discrimination laws.
Article IV. Membership 
Section 1. Membership in this chapter shall be open to any student currently enrolled at NJIT.
Section 2. An active member shall be defined as any member who has attended at least one-half of all general body meetings at which attendance has been taken up to that point in the semester. 
Section 3. Only NJIT full-time undergraduate students who are active members as described in Article IV, Section 2 shall be eligible to vote. 
Section 4. Attendance by a simple majority, or greater than 50%, of the active voting membership shall constitute a quorum. 

Article V. Officers & Elections
Section 1. The officers of this chapter shall be President, Vice-President, Secretary, Treasurer, Webmaster, Public Relations, Event Master, Graphic Designer, and SIG Master.
Section 2. Election of officers shall be by secret ballot during the second to last meeting of the Fall semester. Officers shall be elected by a majority vote of approval of a quorum.
Section 3. Installation of newly-elected officers shall be held upon the start of the Spring semester. The term of the newly elected officers shall be for one calendar year. 
Section 4. All NJIT full-time undergraduate students who are active members of this chapter are eligible to run. Anyone that would graduate during their term would be ineligible to run unless there are extenuating circumstances. Additionally, a student will only be eligible if their grade point average for the preceding quarter is 2.5 or above.
Section 5. All officers of the club are expected to attend general body and officer meetings to the best of their ability. An officer may not have more than three unexcused absences from each in a given semester.
Section 6. To be eligible for the position of President, one must have held one full term of any other position, unless there are extenuating circumstances.
Section 7. Any officer shall be brought up for removal from office if their grade point average falls below the minimum standards set forth in Article V, Section 4,  if the members feel they are not adequately performing their duties, or if they are in violation of the NJIT Code of Student Conduct, local, state or federal laws. A new officer shall be elected to fill the vacancy at the next scheduled meeting. An officer may be removed from office by a three-fourths majority vote of a quorum, however, they may have their powers temporarily suspended via a two-thirds majority vote amongst the current officers until the next general body meeting, at which point an impeachment hearing will be held.
Section 8. This chapter shall elect a faculty advisor from the faculty/staff of New Jersey Institute of Technology with the approval of the Office of the Dean of Student Services. The faculty advisor shall be selected by a unanimous vote of approval by the ACM E-board.
Section 9. No elected officer of this chapter shall have veto power over the others. A majority vote of officers will determine the final ruling on any disagreement.
Article VI. Duties of Officers
Section 1. The President shall preside at all meetings of this chapter and of its Executive Council. They shall also represent this chapter at all meetings with the ACM Regional Representative. They shall also appoint all committees of this chapter and committee chairmen. They shall delegate officer duties not mentioned in this Constitution as needed. They shall also maintain steady contact with the Ying Wu College of Computing and serve as the main external communicator with external companies. They shall serve as this chapter's primary liaison to the Student Senate.
Section 2. The Vice-President shall assume the duties of the President in the event of the President's absence. They shall assume those duties of the President that are delegated to them by the President. They will also assume the responsibilities regarding tutoring for YWCC and ACM.
Section 3. The Secretary shall keep minutes of all chapter meetings. It is their duty to make this information publicly available. They shall also be responsible for submitting any pertinent paperwork to ACM National and/or the NJIT Student Senate in a timely fashion. They shall also be responsible for the active membership roster according to Article IV of this constitution. In addition, they will be in charge of external sponsorships for major events hosted by ACM.
Section 4. The Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining the chapter's financial operations. They shall also make the annual report of the chapter finances as required by the Treasurer of ACM National. [Removed statement regarding responsibility in finding sponsors.]
Section 5. The Webmaster shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the chapter website. They shall also be responsible for managing permissions and access of the officers to the various services utilized by the organization. They shall be responsible for maintaining any custom applications created for the organization, only if the application creator has no intent of maintaining it unless deprecated. 
Section 6. The Public Relations officer shall be responsible for maintaining this chapter's public image. Their duties shall be, but are not limited to, ensuring that this chapter's events are well advertised​, ​recruiting new students into the organization, sending announcements, and handling the chapter’s social media. 
Section 7. The Event Master shall be responsible for the management of all events, including overseeing all event-planning committees. They will also be responsible for operating minor events for ACM. They will also maintain the club’s relationships with other organizations within NJIT.
Section 8. The Graphic Designer shall be responsible for designing promotional materials for the chapter. Their duties include, but are not limited to, designing flyers for events of the chapter, as well as theme art and t-shirts for the chapter. 
Section 9. The SIG Master shall be responsible for the management of all Special Interest Groups. They shall be the point of contact for SIG leaders to act as an advisor and assistant, and will continue regular communication with SIG leaders. They shall also be responsible for recruiting SIG leaders. 
Section 10. The Hackathon Master shall be responsible for creating and managing all Hackathons, including both our major events and smaller hacks throughout the semester. They will work closely with YWCC administration and other university faculty, and coordinate between them and the ACM-E-board. For our larger Hackathons, they will work alongside the President and Vice-President.
Article VII. Meetings
Meetings shall be held every week during the Friday common hour. Members will be notified prior to any change in the meeting time or location.
Article VIII. Conduct
Section 1. This chapter and its members agree to uphold and abide by the rules and regulations of New Jersey Institute of Technology. 
Section 2. This chapter and its members agree to uphold and abide by the standard ethical guidelines outlined in the National ACM Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct.
Section 3. The chapter acknowledges that it is responsible for the behavior of members and guests at any of its functions. 
Section 4. Hazing in any form is not allowed by this organization or its individual members.
Section 5. This chapter and its members agree to uphold and abide by the posted rules office regarding conduct in this organization’s office.
Article IX. Amendments and Procedure 
Section 1. Proposed amendments to this constitution shall be distributed to all current officers and members in a timely manner. 
Section 2. An amendment to this constitution shall be officially approved once unanimously agreed upon by all current officers, having received a favorable 2/3 vote from a quorum. 
Section 3. Robert's Rules of Order Revised shall be the final authority on any points not covered in the National ACM Constitution or in this Constitution.
Article X: Removal of Members from a Recognized Student Organization
Section 1: Recognized student organizations at NJIT are open to enrolled students at NJIT. In some cases, organizations may need to remove an individual from their membership. Organizations must follow the below procedures when seeking or attempting to remove a member from their organization.
Section 2: The executive board of a recognized student organization may revoke membership based on the following criteria:
Being in violation of the group’s mission, purpose, and constitution,
Failure to fulfill duties as outlined in the constitution,
Engaging in alleged behavior that is in violation with NJIT’s Code of Student Conduct.*
Section 3: Steps after an alleged violation has been identified are:
The removal process begins with a meeting between the organization’s president and their Student Life Liaison. The president of the organization should set up a meeting with their OSL Liaison as soon as possible. 
Following this meeting, the president and faculty/staff advisor must meet with the individual who is in potential violation of the above criteria to provide a written warning.
Section 4: If documented violations continue after the written warning, the group’s executive board will vote on membership revocation. A vote of two-thirds in favor of removal is necessary to remove a member. An email is required to be sent to the removed member within 48 hours of the decision. This email should outline the initial violation and warning, as well as subsequent violations following that date. This email should be sent to the Director of Student Life (or their designee). 
Section 5: Appeal Process: An individual may appeal their removal from an organization by filing their full and complete written appeal with the Director of Student Life (or their designee) within five business (5) days of the date of the letter of notification of the decision being appealed. Appeals may be based only on the following reasons: 
1. A procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter; 
2. Or new evidence, which was not reasonably available at the time of the decision, that could affect the outcome of the matter 
Section 6: The Director of Student Life (or his/her designee) will advise the non-appealing party in writing of the receipt of an appeal. The Director of Student Life (or his/her designee) will determine the disposition of the appeal and notify both parties of its decision including its rationale. The Director of Student Life (or their designee) shall review the written record of the case and the information submitted as part of the appeal request form. A new investigation shall not be conducted. It is expected that a decision will be rendered within five (5) days but may be extended for good cause. 

All appeal decisions are final, and not subject to further appeal.

 *Any alleged violation (such as, but not limited to, stalking, sexual harassment, and bias) of the Code of Student Conduct should be directed to the Office of the Dean of Students
NJIT ACM By-laws
Article I. Specialized Interest Groups
Section 1. A Specialized Interest Group is a group of active members who share a common computing related interest. SIG is a valid abbreviation of Specialized Interest Group. Activities of a SIG include, but are not limited to, teaching, discussing, and creating projects related to their topic. 
Section 2. SIGs of the NJIT ACM are not directly affiliated with the SIGs of the National ACM. Similarly, SIG student chapters of NJIT are not necessarily affiliated with the NJIT ACM. 
Section 3. A SIG Leader is an Active Member of the ACM who has administrative control over a specific SIG. They also serve as the SIG’s liaison to the executive board. The election of a SIG Leader is determined by the SIG or, if necessary, the Executive Board. 
Section 4. A SIG’s funding comes directly from NJIT ACM. This comes in the form of base funding as well as additional funding from participation in voting every other week. 
Section 5. For a SIG to be considered active, it must possess the following qualities:
At least one leader, whose responsibilities are defined above
At least three active members, including the SIG leader
Regular attendance of the weekly meetings by the SIG leader 
Compliance with any additional requests of the executive board
Section 6. Any active member may form a SIG, as long as it fits the following criteria: 
Approval of the current Executive Board 
Fits the active SIG requirements 
Does not infringe on any current SIGs’ or other clubs’ topic
